So, as we talk through this deal, I I we did get a request for a good old-fashioned antitrust argument. >> It's been a while. >> I want to put a pin in the regulatory angle at the top and focus first on the Netflix side. It's funny because you mentioned the Netflix Warner Brothers possibility like maybe six weeks ago in a daily update and when I was reading that daily update, my honest reaction at the time was, man, I'm surprised Ben is even dignifying these rumors because Netflix, I mean, they've become known for their restraint and fiscal discipline over the last couple years. And Warner Brothers has been sold four times since 2001. And it just seemed like a crazy idea. >> You could rank all the acquisitions by how much of a disaster they were. >> Exactly. [laughter] So like Netflix going that direction seemed inconceivable, but here we are. So question number one for you. What have we learned about Netflix and its position in the market over the last week? What do you take away from their interest here? I have bad news for you, Andrew, because I think the biggest takeaway cuts right back to where we're going to have the biggest point of contention on this podcast. >> My biggest takeaway from this is that Netflix is scared shitless by YouTube. >> Yeah. >> That like the the there is a they can feel their share. you I think you could go back a number of you know Netflix is inexorably growing as a share of TV and you know this is one of those things I should probably go back and cite all these but I've read every Netflix investor letter and their comments to the media Netflix's investor calls are hilarious by the way so they they used to have like interviews where one analyst was allowed to go on and ask them at the earnings call and like ask questions as like a standin for everyone now they have like uh They do have a group of analysts, but it's all like like they're they're very controlling about this whole process that has always been sort of interesting to me. But but there was just sort of this ongoing sense they include charts of their their increasing share of TV. And part of that was to show how well they're doing, but also part of it was to show how much potential they still had. you know like we're just a single digit share and it's like it's 3% then it's 4% 5% then it's 6%. Uh the problem with those charts is there is another entity that is growing faster than them surpassed them two years ago >> and that is YouTube and YouTube is so it's not just that you have uh uh and I'm talking specifically about share of TV like not this isn't mobile YouTube is actually far far larger we're talking about TV specifically the thing on your wall >> total minutes watched on TV YouTube now beats Netflix consistently So, it's not just that there is another entity that is doing better at the graphic that Netflix was so so proud of for so long. >> That entity has a fundamental structural advantage, which is they get their content for free. Um, >> and it's unlimited content that they're able to serve. Sure. >> That's right. And it's it's totally personalized. Like Netflix can talk about, oh, we have data and then we can personalize your feel like you want true personalization. That's sort of what YouTube is. Mhm. >> And I, you know, look, I could monologue for a while here, so feel free to jump in. [laughter] >> No, I'm enjoying it. >> Well, I I think what this there's just a what I've enjoyed about this deal for me personally, and this actually I owe Michael Nathansson for it because I think I kind of this crystallized for me while we were talking >> and then I put it in my article then and then uh didn't post the interview the next day. So, sorry, Michael. Um [laughter] I >> sorry Michael and thank you Michael. I love any interview you do with Michael Nathansson. Always a great podcast. >> Netflix is always like a core piece of it. So like we we had to do this revisit the same Netflix argument that you've been having with Michael Nathansson for like seven years. So it's interesting to sort of chart the progress of the takes over time. Um I enjoy that you kick things off that way. I will just note before you finish, um, I did the Takeability rankings with tech companies last month and had a bunch of fun. Netflix was low on that list and they were low on your side. >> Well, a little bit because look, I in my mind you thought theyated from the take game. >> The game is over. There are lots of arguments about Netflix going back to your conversations with Michael Nathansson and they won was the way I saw it a month ago and the fact that they are interested in this deal. I I find myself wondering, is this a great opportunity where they can press their advantage, or are they panicked about some of the failures they've had developing original content of their own, the ongoing costs, licensing, the unwillingness of others in Hollywood to license content, and of course, the threat to Google. I've come away from the last week wondering whether they were way more vulnerable than anyone realized. Well, I don't know. I don't know that I put it as vulnerable, but but just sort of zooming out. Let me get let me get to the my my sort of insight that I think I came up with because you you there is this broad this is a a story as old as the internet, >> which is the threat to professional media from sort of the masses like me, right? Like and I I know I think like people now would like consider me like a professional media creator >> or whatever it might be, but I'm still a guy on a WordPress blog at the end of a day, right? Like I I did I did I didn't need >> You haven't changed our understanding of what constitutes media has changed over the last 10 or 15 years. >> For sure. For sure. A and I think the, you know, there's just this this aspect of these were gatekeepers in both a positive and a negative sense. Like if you wanted to write something that people read, you had to get into the newspaper because how were people going to act like what were you going to do? Like print it out like like a crazy person on a street corner start passing out pamphlets like like you needed to actually get the content into people's hands so they could read it. And newspapers were the way that you did that. And you could do letters to the editor. That's how I started writing letters to the editor in college. Uh [laughter] got so >> I wrote an angry letter to the Boston College student paper and they ended up publishing it and I was officially a published author. >> That's right. Um so yeah, I mean I love it. Uh the and so there there's you know the internet made that different. anyone can publish and you know one of my I actually think the best one of the my better articulations of aggregation theory was actually in 2014 and I didn't number one it speaks to the power branding uh yeah I think I think I've referenced this like economic power in the age of abundance is like the name of the title not so catchy uh didn't didn't really stick but it was about this I think I put in there I put a couple of or graphs or drawings that's like look I have readers in like at that time I think was like 150 countries. Now I think I might I don't know if I have North Korea yet but like for I haven't looked for a while but >> I have readers in literally every country in the world or basically every country in the world. I shouldn't you know screw up my language. >> Let's call it half. Yeah. I have subs subscribers everywhere like the >> and I am for those anyone who reads me every minute spent reading me is a minute not spent reading something else. >> Yeah. >> And that something else could be other bloggers. It could be Twitter. It could be the New York Times. It could be your your local newspaper. And the this speaks to the point that there is the only plane of competition left is time and attention >> and and so you're you're that like I am not the New York Times. They are a publicly listed company. They make a lot of money. They're again I've I've raved endlessly about how they've handled the transition, you know, especially over the last 10 years. Just just from a business perspective, setting aside, you know, all the like editorial just really brilliantly. They've also sort of cleaned up the entire space because everyone just subscribes to them first. So their success is very much at the cost of a lot of other newspapers >> including the Washington Post for example. Yeah. >> Yeah. Like like like no one holds them responsible for everyone else getting decimated and they are one of the chief entities that ought to be held responsible. Um but but the this is just the the the plane of competition is shifting and this is a core problem. Again, I'm talking about newspapers, but this sort of matters everywhere and it certainly matters in media. YouTube is absolutely a competitor for Netflix and I'm willing to go to the mat fighting with you about this point. >> So, in that context, what do you do? Because YouTube owns that supply. You you you now Netflix is doing these deals with Spotify. you this is how you opened your piece which you know I want you to sort of articulate your thesis in a little bit but with some of the like ringer content for example and you know which is it's like on is it content is it [laughter] whatever yeah >> like I don't really know what that >> if you create video content like uh you do it on YouTube like that's where the audience is if you want to get any sort of growth if you want to have any sort of breakthrough and they monetize you like like one of the brilliant parts of YouTube is how from the very beginning they have helped creators monetize and it's it is actually a beautiful manifestation of Google's like uh what's the word uh enlightened selflessness like like where they've shared a lot of revenue with creators all along and does that mean their their revenue is actually zero marginal cost content yes I think it does because that revenue is >> because there's inventory so it like it's matched but setting it aside They own that space. They own that space more than Netflix could ever dream of owning Hollywood content, even if this deal goes through. So, what do you do? I And what I think's been revealed over the last, I would say, 10 years or so is what distinguishes professional content at its best is it's a little bit more like music than I ever appreciated. Hm. >> So, I wrote an article differentiating between different types of media and why different industries played out differently with these internet dynamics. And I did like print and I did TV and movies. They might have been together. I can't remember. And I did music. And what and the thing about music was I was pretty early on that actually the labels are doing all things considered doing pretty good. They are the poster child for the internet ruining their business model. Napster comes along all that sort of thing. uh you know and but why and the reason is because with music yes of course new releases matter Spotify's ability to create hits or you know make people aware of new things is very powerful and useful and they're making real money sort of selling the access to sort of help that happen >> but at the end of the day >> I get my Spotify >> ung smalls and Tupac and all sorts of music we did listen this year and it's '90s alternative. That's what I listen to, right? [laughter] Like the uh and like the you listen to the same songs >> again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and as you get older it gets worse. Uh you and the and the the thing about music is once you create once a song is published it's part of the library. And so there's a bit where the the the power of the labels it's not perfect. It's not absolute. Spotify has real power, but their power is more cemented and permanent than you might think because of the control they have of libraries. >> Yeah, >> you go that actually there are some shows that are like that on TV. You have your friends here. You have The Office. You have Seinfeld. You have these. And it's really interesting how a lot of these sort of shows don't get made anymore, >> but these are shows that you come back to as comfort food sort of again and again. They're content that people enjoy. Like there's a bit where they don't I don't >> I would like to be a music person and be into the new bands and I just don't have the time and mental energy [laughter] to do that. >> Neither do I. which I think signifies we're officially old. It's like but the great thing look like just leaning into how washed we are >> gives us sort of real expertise in this area, right? And I think I'm not a like I'm famously not a TV watcher, right? I I'm a big TV watcher, but if it's sports like I I I will watch sort of any sort of sports content. But I can recognize and appreciate just having friends on in the background. Maybe you're watching, maybe you're not, is pretty great. And that's distinct from I'm going to watch this new show and I'm going to lean forward and I'm going to lock in and sort of see what's happening versus a oh, I'm watching the show and I'm also scrolling on my phone and or I'm making dinner or sort of what, you know, whatever it might be or someone calls me and it's fine. I can pause it or I can not pause it because I've seen the show like 57 times. my we went to Canada fishing this this uh this summer on the drive back me and my buddy who used to watch every episode of Seinfeld on Thursdays in high school >> Mhm. >> put on like season 7 which I think was the alltime great season and just plowed through like 15 episodes on like this 12 hour. It was awesome. It was so great. [laughter] Right. And like guess what? I was an attentive driver on the road cuz I didn't need to pay close attention because I've seen all these episodes, but it was also so delightful and we were actually like then recalling like in high school like certain things that that that was like tied to this. It was like a >> Were you a Seinfeld guy or a Simpsons guy growing up >> Seinfeld? I was afeld guy. >> I look we were destined to podcast together. I was [laughter] a Seinfeld fan as well. I listened to an interview with Julia Louie Drifus earlier this week and as I was listening to the interview I found myself thinking you know what I need to revisit Seinfeld because I have very fond memories of growing up watching Seinfeld. It was syndicated when I was growing up so I would watch it every day at 5:30 and that's the sort of content they're not buying Seinfeld but that's the sort of content that Netflix is acquiring if this deal goes through with Warner Brothers. And this is where I come back to the struggles that Netflix has had with their own original efforts because they've been unable to develop the sort of comfort food that people come back to over and over again on the Netflix platform. So it's actually you you talked about sort of the flattening of TV and and and like overall like what what happened? Why why can't they do this? Well, I would say that the everything is now more disposable than it was 25 years ago when there were more traditional distribution mechanisms. You would watch Seinfeld on TV every Thursday, for instance. And now there's just this river of content that overwhelms everything. Basically, as soon as I watch stuff, I forget it. And then there's something new on and >> and then you try to convince me to watch more TV. It's ridiculous. [laughter] >> Yeah. Well, it's enjoyable. Look, we're all just waiting to die here trying to fill the time. [laughter] So, but >> what do you put it that way? >> I enjoy myself watching TV, but I feel like it's been rendered less meaningful than it once was. And particularly with movies, I actually cited an email that Stephen sent us. the market for mid-budget movies has been more or less destroyed. So, my article about Netflix this week started with the irony that the Rewatchables podcast as part of that Spotify deal will be exclusive to Netflix beginning in January. And Netflix and the emergence of Netflix did more to kill the rewatchable movie than any entity on Earth. And the e ecosystem in Hollywood looks completely different than it did even 10 or 15 years ago. And what that creates is this new environment like Netflix needs to serve content to keep people engaged. And it actually makes sense to go back to a studio that has been making hits for 75 years and particularly has a lot of hits from 25 years ago that may help keep people engaged. Like I I understand the logic of this move from that perspective. I do find myself wondering whether it is in fact any sort of insulation from the disruption threat that YouTube poses with a neverending avalanche of user generated content that has happens to be pretty popular. I don't watch YouTube on my TV, but clearly lots of people do. I'm not sure how much Warner Brothers content actually moves the needle as they try to fend off that threat. Well, the thing this is sort of the contrast the thing with YouTube and and I'm more familiar with this from the creator side just because I I've talked to creators and you know John Johnny who is a part of this bundle Asian is sort of amazing and I feel bad for him sometimes because every YouTube creator you talk to and I I I've heard similar things from like MKBHD and I I've talked to a fair number of other ones sort of off the record the overwhelming inescapable sense that you are on a hamster wheel and you just have to keep going is like kind of terrifying and like I guess I get a little bit of a sense of that on strategy because I publish every day and I feel bad when I'm you know when I miss uh I feel guilt vaguely guilty about taking vacations. Don't don't email me. I know it's unhealthy. It's just the way I'm [laughter] wired. Okay, relax. Well, you got people like Jean out there on a Friday night in the ice cream shop at the ice cream shop. Geez, terrible. Uh the and there's something about this new environment is it's dramatically overindexed on new and fresh. >> And that's like it doesn't matter if it's good or quality, is it new? And Google, I think, has been really like one of the really bad things that's happened to Google search is it's so overindexed to fresh content now. Like you have to really like put in a bunch of parameters and understand how to how to manipulate it to >> which is unfortunate because the internet is much shittier today than it was even 10 years ago. >> Well, and this is a thing about the internet generally too. I think one of the one of the great ironies is Twitter Twitter like got this early. It's about Twitter is about what's happening right now. And arguably the greatest mistake Twitter made was one that literally no one thought about. So it's not really like a mistake. It just only if you look back now, believe it or not, it's been 19 years. Uh you go >> when when Twitter [laughter] started >> it Twitter posts should have dis disappeared by default uh after a week or after a month or whatever it might be a and the you would have >> if I could pay extra for that feature I would pay it today. Yeah, it would just like that's what Twitter is. And in the long run, particularly after all the cancellations and all the madness that sort of we went through over the last decade, what happened is is that the the fact that it was permanent dramatically hindered and limited people's willingness to express themselves in the present, >> which is a problem because Twitter at its best is about in the present. It's about like what's happening right now and one of the there I can understand the the push on the algorithm because it's really hard to get people fresh content or get when they're just joining the platform and so an algorithm is important in that regard. It's super annoying when something happened right now and I want to get the reactions which sort of used to be used to be sort of one one of the things to it and this is a this is such a weird paradox of the internet where the nature of computers is to record data about everything. This is why like making making a payw wall is actually hard cuz it's like counter to information just flows at a zero marshall cost go anywhere. Making stuff sort of temporary feels impossible because it's getting written down somewhere, right? Like like the you know even like some of the most sort of exotic exploits where you're like you can listen to the the chip and like figure out like what's in memory and what's not. This was this this pretty famous exploit of of uh like that happened with with chip sort of a couple years ago. I have an article I'll put in the show notes, but >> it's because stuff had to be put in memory at some point and then they could sort of tease out what was there. There is something about computers that is inherently sort of permanent and recording but the nature of how it is all experienced in the internet is very temporary and very sort of to the moment everything that was in the past sort of doesn't matter and it's immaterial and that is YouTube overcomes this by being the platform for all creators. So when creator one burns out, it doesn't matter to YouTube. There's 47 creators willing to sort of fill that space and and sort of come in there and sort sort sort of do it. But it does lead to this inherently from an audience perspective. It is isolating. >> Like yes, there's comments and you can share YouTube videos, but the individualized nature of the feed and this applies to social media. It applies to AI. >> Yeah. Why do I not feel threatened by AI? The reason is because your AI can generate analysis and maybe it's better than mine and it's consumed by one person. You >> stratey an underrated benefit is that everyone is reading the exact same thing. And now I benefit because I'm at scale. So I am achieving that. There's a huge question. How do you get to scale? There's a dramatic narrowing of the market because everyone can reach strategy. How much room is there for other people to sort of break into there as far I mean theoretically they can but you're competing with like everyone else and I'm already there but but the the this sort of totem type nature of my content this commonality is I think a defensibility in the age of AI and I think that applies to TV. Seinfeld is Seinfeld. It applies to music. Taylor Swift is Taylor Swift. Um, by the way, Taylor Swift's last album, Unfairly Maligned. It's fine. Are you good in places? >> Zag. Okay. I speaking of the new environment, >> the accidental critical consensus like our friend Spike Eskin's theory in reverse. Everyone decided it was terrible. Uh, no. It's it's pretty good actually. >> You've always been a T-Swift defender. Um, I have only listened to that album in 15-second snippets that have been posted to Instagram, so I can't comment authoritatively. >> Well, then you should think it's awesome. Life of Philly is one of her all time songs. >> Enjoy the snippets. >> It is her greatest movie uh music video of all time. It's It's phenomenal. It's so well done. >> Listen to this fanatic on the other line here. >> I'm not a fanatic. No, I'm I'm actually not hardcore. I didn't actually really listen to it until this past weekend. I'm like, what are people talking about? This is the thing. You always fight the allegations when I try to turn you into a t-shirt. [laughter] >> The only man in America defending that new album from her. So effectively here, what we're saying is Netflix's defense to YouTube will be selling shared uh shared experiences, shared entertainment experiences that YouTube with its avalanche of userenerated content can't deliver. Is that the idea? know if it's sh I don't know if it's a shared experience per se other than I just and so this is again this is a fairly fresh theory to me so I'm still sort of fleshing it out but there is it's not inevitable that user generated content just takes over everything there is still space for creating content for professional content that is more timeless YouTube has no timelessness everything on YouTube. How often do you go back and watch a YouTube video from 10 years ago, much le or or one year ago or even a week ago, except for like how-to guides about how to like install something or fix something, that stuff's gold, man. Uh, you know, if you want that in itself justifies YouTube's existence to the world, but like just generally >> leaning into being an old guy. Yeah, absolutely. >> Right. And and actually one of the reasons I like John's content is I think it is actually quite timeless. You go back, he has amazing stuff about like actually an awesome library. Yes. >> Right. But but it's like how do you surface that right? There's a bit where you can go link to it and go to it. The again I don't know this isn't full but there is something I what I think Netflix is identifying is what defense do we have against this >> and I think a defense is this I it it's this sort of content that is evergreen that is timeless and Netflix itself to your point their production of TV which has happened in this era of user generated content of social media has been a bit hamsterlike. In theory, and I always made this was my cases for Netflix early on is like, oh, the brilliance of them creating content is they're increasing their library. What that does is how do you get the marginal customer who hasn't signed up for Netflix yet? Well, every month that they wait, the value of what they're getting increases because the library is increasing over time. >> The problem is the their content has been very good at doing that. And >> well, totally. And I think that is a key distinction between music and movies and television. A lot of the newer content that's been made over the last 10 or 15 years just does not have the same library value. And that's where certain tentpole properties that Warner Brothers has can be really really valuable to Netflix both for the IP that already exists and potentially new franchises that they could build on going forward. Like >> well this is the other thing too like the I I I cited three examples of so the question for for an acquisition is why why acquire instead of just making a deal like that like this is like why >> right uh well just in general right like acquisitions entail you have to integrate it you're going to by definition overpay often if you want to make changes to the business you're going to destroy some value in the business so why are you paying a premium like Warner Brothers was valued at like $30 million or $30 billion like just a few months ago. Like why are we pay $80 billion for it today? You're going to have to not like you're basically saying that not only is this like we're paying more than what it was worth. We're paying a huge premium. How why would you do that when let let them Warner Brothers is licensing more and more content like we can just rent shows from them. Wouldn't that be a better deal? And that's what I thought for a long time would be the endgame is Netflix just is there. They get to license shows and and sort of that that that sort of >> and as all these other studios and streaming platforms die on the vine, they're negotiating leverage gets much better as the years pass and they gain pricing power over all those customers and it turns into a great business. That's >> that's right. And >> basically a month ago, that's why I was like, well, the game is over. This is how it's going to go for Netflix. And I think that's still like there's a bit where is Netflix just not being patient enough like that's going to happen. Can you just relax for a couple more years and sort of you'll get there and and that is why I started with the YouTube point. It I sense in this a bit of >> we we can't wait like we we need to sort of that's why the the start of the Hollywood endgame like that that is the endgame. Netflix is the cable bundle. Everyone subscribes to it. What'd you pay for the cable rental back in the day? $80, $100, $100 a year. That's what you'll pay for Netflix, but you'll get everything so it's going to be fine or whatever. $50 or you you have $50 for Netflix, $50 for ESPN, and you get everything with that, right? Like that that was a scenario I sketched out like over a decade ago, like like we're this is going to reconsolidate. You're not going I remember this is a very early check article. I'm like all because people were griping about prices and this is back when stuff was like $56 or whatever. I'm like, >> this idea that the future of entertainment entails people paying less is not going to happen. [laughter] You're going to be paying the same amount. It's just going to be to different people in different combinations. >> Talk about gerting yourself. Get ready to pay an extra 10 or $15 a month, everyone out there. Um, that has proven true. >> Yeah. And as like people, if you want this content to exist, you should want the money flows to actually be similar if you think about it, right? like like do you do you think you're going to get the same stuff if you're paying half as much for like people want their they want they don't think through the economics it's like people would like shery to be free uh do you want to exist okay then you're going to pay for it right >> you wouldn't be writing if it were free yes um >> uh and so so there is an aspect of of this here for sure but >> there the three properties I brought up was F1 uh the drive to survive series >> the suits the NBC Universal show, it actually was a Warner Brothers show that Netflix basically propelled to the top of the charts in in 2023. And then, of course, K-pop Demon Hunters. Um, [laughter] someone did identify my shadow job as the K-pop Demon Hunters marketing manager. So, I'm just going to get back in the saddle again here. >> Totally. I had a question on here. Is this the biggest media story of the decade? The answer is no. K-pop demon hunters is [laughter] the biggest media story of the decade here on Sharp Tech.
