But like that's on a the B on a $200 billion company that's incredible. That's like their best growth in like five years. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So that more than anything I suspect undergurs why suddenly everyone's piling back into Meta like they've and this is part of the meta pattern. They continually surprise Wall Street and surprise investors with their ability to grow from ever larger bases. Every time this happens and they show these incredible growth numbers, it's off of a base that is dramatically larger than the last time there was a crisis, right? And and so the uh I think it this &gt;&gt; every 18 months people say, "Oh, it turns out that's actually a pretty good business." &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's more like three to four years. But yes, it happened it happened with stories, it happened with reals, and now it's happening with uh actually we can just shove ads everywhere as [laughter] much as we want. So um &gt;&gt; and there's nobody that can touch us. our users aren't going anywhere. So, it's all really really impressive. What did you think of the results, though? And the idea I mean, I I was struck by a note in your daily update on Thursday that the almost the entire free cash flow that Meta has is going to go to AI Capex in 2026. &gt;&gt; Yeah. My takeaway is it's actually underappreciated the extent to which Mark Zuckerberg is burning the boats, as it were. Mhm. &gt;&gt; Like I I think I don't know that people have fully accepted or internalized the implication of this spent. How do they come up with 135 billion at the top end? I actually think it's pretty simple. 135 billion is how much free cash flow they're projected to have this year. And so we're talking about putting basically every single dollar of cash they have towards buying data centers and chips and all the sorts of things that go into that. And to put that in context, a few years ago they were spending I don't have the number in front of me, but I would say 12-$15 billion sort of in capex. The increase from like three years ago to this year's projected number is basically more than they've lost in reality labs over the last 13 years, this supposed albatross where they're spending all this money. So like like the like reality labs which is like this symbol of meta sort of excess and Mark Zuckerberg like honor and fine if he keeps turning out results will let us spend [laughter] money uh is a footnote compared to &gt;&gt; the amount of money they are they are projecting to spend &gt;&gt; and that is yeah what it what it is is and it was this earnings call actually I think I might have literally laughed um I laugh at very stupid things because I'm a business nerd. But the very first analyst question is uh can you give us some examples of how you expect to get sort of a return on invested capital and over the next three five years? &gt;&gt; This was my favorite part of your daily update just for the record and what did say &gt;&gt; he's like no. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. [laughter] &gt;&gt; It was like a paragraph long no from Mark Zuckerberg as far after like it was very honest the part that I quoted. There was another like few hundred words. Oh, my voice is fading. You can hear it. [clears throat] &gt;&gt; I can't wait. &gt;&gt; Over 90 minutes here &gt;&gt; of him actually then trying to come up with examples of stuff they might do. &gt;&gt; But it was appropriately should be appropriately taken with a grain of salt. The grain of salt that Mark Zuckerberg is like that meme. Remember the salt guy meme of the guy like just flinging salt? &gt;&gt; That was Mark Zuckerberg at the beginning of this answering &gt;&gt; details and ideas. Everything I say should be taken with a grain of salt and let me throw the salt on this on the steak for you because uh you're going to need a lot of it. &gt;&gt; Well, we got a question from Adam that tracks with some of my instinctive skepticism that I gave away when I was reading the Bloomberg article. Um so Adam says, "Ben, in your update Thursday, I would have liked some discussion of whether Zuckerberg ought to come to terms with the idea of being just an app or a set of apps. I'm skeptical of Meta's right to win in Gen AI even as a capability. Isn't all the ad revenue just funding Zuck's ongoing yearning to be more than a set of apps? What do you think of that? &gt;&gt; I do think it continues to be underrated and underappreciated the extent to which Apple saved Meta from itself, saved Mark Zuckerberg from himself. People forget the Facebook platform. like the idea that we're going to be this place for other apps and we're going to have Facebook credits and Farmville and all these sorts of things that was sort of the stated goal in what the company was doing. And what happened was the phone comes along. They underinvest in it and they actually try this HTML 5 sort of approach that would theoretically give them more flexibility to do this sort of stuff in the future and got killed for it. And then in 2012 or 2013, they just restart everything, redo the app. It's going to be a great app on the phone. &gt;&gt; And as an app on the phone, you don't get to be a platform. The phone is the platform. You don't get to do a platform on top of a platform. Not just because of Apple's policies, which are certainly part of it, but also because you're dealing with a 3.5 in screen. What are you going to actually do with it? And the reality is is that forced Facebook into their advertising business, which is incredible. And I pointed this out way back in 2013 when I first started. I think I wrote an article, mobile makes Facebook just an app. Like basically state making this case like Facebook's being saved from themselves. &gt;&gt; And what was incredible even back then and it's only being extent like this point is, you know, is a good point because it's 100. It's even more true today in 2026. directly ties to these results. I pointed out back in 2013 that what is incredible from a business perspective about Facebook is that they somehow have gotten permission of users to continually show them full screen ads. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Like you scroll the feed and for some fraction amount of time every single pixel on this device in your hand on which you're focused is an ad. &gt;&gt; Is an ad. Yeah. and and actually users preferred it and liked it and responded to it dramatically better than they did like the banner adine advertising on newspapers. Yeah, totally. &gt;&gt; Like the banner ads were actually this is a great example of how people think about these things so wrong and what actually happens can completely upset your assumptions. People would think, oh, the banner ads we then they can see their content and they're not so bothered by like this. It's like the negative view of advertising I think is is is persistent. People are like ashamed of advertising. It's like, well, we'll just put it on the side. We're not going to bother you too much, but can you look over here? Like, this is basically the newspaper industry in a nutshell. And what Meta achieved, Facebook back then achieved with the feed and Apple forcing them into the constraint of a 3.5 in screen is they figured out how to actually not tiptoe around ads, but shove them in your face to the extent that people weren't bothered and they actually liked It's really true. As a user, it is a preferable experience to see a full screen ad and then go back to the full screen content as opposed to seeing all screen. &gt;&gt; That's the thing. It's all content. And &gt;&gt; that's true. Well, and the Instagram ads content as well. &gt;&gt; This is what happened last quarter. Last quarter basically was a revalidation of the point I made in 2013. It it it not only are the ads way better now because they're all video and they're sort of immersive and you can click through and do all these things you couldn't do back then, but actually we have way more capacity to shove this in people's faces than we thought we did. &gt;&gt; We could put more ads taking over the full screen. And by the way, now it's not like a scroll and you're going past it. It's like a whole video that's locked like you're when you're in a reel and you flick and it's going through a video and you're like, "Oh, I just spent 20 seconds watching an ad when when actually it was totally in my control to skip it the whole time, but the ad was compelling and interesting and actually I kind of want to buy this thing." Like it's it's this remains underrated and I think it remains underrated by Facebook itself. They like they are insufficiently grateful to Apple for forcing them to do what they didn't want to do. Now, I think they have much more valid points later on like we've talked about at I think what Apple does in terms of APIs for devices where they favor their own stuff is is clearly problematic and for particular for a company trying to build a device business. But &gt;&gt; overall in the grand arc of Facebook, if I'm writing the Facebook without Apple function is arguably the most important company to their success, which they will never ever want to admit. Well, and look, in terms of what Facebook/Meta is now trying to do in AI, the reason I'm skeptical and the reason I identify with some of the questions that Adam is asking, like I'm not a Meta investor and so far be it for me to tell Mark Zuckerberg how to spend $135 billion. But on its face, Meta's AI strategy, it looks like a business that's been sketched on the back of a napkin where &gt;&gt; No, it doesn't look like a business at all. I think you're actually giving them too much credit. But here's here's sort of the defense of it. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; If you truly believe that AI is a total paradigm shifter &gt;&gt; and that everything that yes, we'll look back on the smartphone and the smartphone will still be around like the PC is still around, not actually pertinent to the way people interact in the future. And you know, this idea of just in time AI, whether it be Blurvia glasses or or little handheld devices or earpieces or or whatever it might be, &gt;&gt; you'll need the infrastructure. You'll need the muscle. &gt;&gt; You'll need to matter. &gt;&gt; That's right. And it's actually interesting. The contrast between Meta and Apple right now is extremely striking. &gt;&gt; No kidding. Apple has basically abandoned this. They're they're outsourcing to to Google like uh John Gruber and Ding just pointed out like you go back to the the Tim Cook doctrine. One of the core things is we have to own and control the technologies that are like critical to our business. Apple is basically either giving up on that doctrine or stating that AI isn't actually going to be that big of a deal in terms of disrupting their core business, which by the way all might be true, right? Like like maybe all along &gt;&gt; totally. I mean, and it's fascinating to me watching Meta because we've kind of rad over the coals for its complacency over the last two and a half years. Even as every conversation does include the caveat, this might be smart, but it's less interesting from a technology standpoint. &gt;&gt; Right. So, so that's why I'm going to push back on you laughing at this. Like if you actually if you want if you're going to rake up over the coals, &gt;&gt; shouldn't you be lauding Mark Zuckerberg for basically saying we &gt;&gt; we are going to &gt;&gt; push and squeeze our core business and we're not going to dillydally around. We're actually going to take every single dollar from our existing business and put it into being competitive and controlling our own destiny in the future. &gt;&gt; Totally. You interrupted me before I could say actually I've come to respect Apple stance more when I look at what Meta is doing because I look at the napkin and it says capex plus super intelligence equals profit is basically what I'm taking away from a lot of what Mark Zuckerberg has had to say over the last year or so and I find myself sitting here being like all right so what's the product and why is that product going to be differentiated from any of the companies that are already dominating in this space And I think one argument is that performance will be correlated to compute and the infrastructure that you have and so they'll eventually take the lead that way or get near the top that way. But they seem to be operating from the assumption that none of their present- day advantages will matter in an AI dominated future, which itself is a pretty speculative premise and it's why a lot of this is such a fascinating bet from Zuckerberg. Um maybe yeah, I push back on that. I I I actually think it is a defense of meta spending &gt;&gt; that AI even as it is today has tremendous upsides for their business. I wrote this uh two years ago that like meta should be the biggest beneficiary of this. We talked about like ad generating ads just in time or the better targeting or in the long run every single pixel on Instagram should be monetizable. Like it shouldn't be content versus then you go to an ad that no everything should be an ad like like basically that is viable like with the technology as exists today. You can identify everything on screen. You could link it to something else. You could have a buy like when I right now I take a screenshot of our podcast. I'm looking at you. I'm like what kind of mic does Andrew have? I should be able to click on that. &gt;&gt; Buy that. &gt;&gt; I should be able to buy that. Like and that should be monetizable. Like like there's no reason given technology as exists right now that that couldn't be done. So meta more than any other company we talk about the product overhang of the model capabilities and all the things that could be built just given what exists today never mind what might exist in the future I actually buy the case that they &gt;&gt; I do too I just don't know you I don't know that you need to spend $130 billion to get there &gt;&gt; why not like so we're talking about AI exists today what is AI going to look like in two to three to four years and if you're not investing today then all you're doing is making it that much further and fall and falling behind like like what &gt;&gt; I guess my defense of this is what do you want them to save the money for? &gt;&gt; Uh that's a good question too. Again, I'm not I'm not a Meta shareholder and this makes for more interesting podcasting, but I'm just not sure where the money leads. I think is a fair question to ask at this point given the lack of clarity from Meta and Zuckerberg. &gt;&gt; Yeah, but if if it was super clear, again, I do think there's real things in terms of their current business. So I I I I think you're actually Yes, we laughed at his sort of I don't you know I'm not going to give you a clear answer here, but he did say in the answer it'll benefit our current business. And I do think that's super clear. Actually, if anything, I think he understates this. And &gt;&gt; I would argue doesn't fully understand this in part because one of my critiques of Zuckerberg is he doesn't really like ads either. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And uh doesn't fully understand or think about the potential there. Like I I feel I am much more enthusiastic about meta ads than Mark Zuckerberg is which is kind of a problem advocate [laughter] for them. &gt;&gt; You're enthusiastic about all the AI opportunities back going back to the interview with Zuckerberg about a year ago year and a half ago &gt;&gt; right? Well I just this ad angle in particular I think he could actually sell this much better if he was deeper into and cared more about ads because I just think the opportunity here is astronomical. Like just again with LLMs as they are and Facebook inventory as it is like I just think like you look now look yes there is an aspect of their growth that is from shoving more ads in front of people but number one you get away with that because your recommendation gets so good that people don't mind and also just they talk about like 1% increase 5% increase that level of increase in terms of effectiveness and targeting and clickthroughs on a $200 billion business is astronomical like like so like these these are very real gains that they are achieving today and I think it's completely legitimate when they talk about building new targeting built around LMS which is basically what they're saying is we can understand the content and they don't oh and we're going to build new ones where you can go back further in people's history to understand what what is interesting to them that's about increasing context text windows and like understanding all the stuff that's going on. All this is totally legitimate. These are legitimate arguments. And &gt;&gt; I actually think my critique of Zuckerberg is he doesn't make these arguments well enough because he doesn't care. I think Mark Zuckerberg just wants to control the future technology which he believes is AI. And it's working out because that is going he has smart people who do care about ads and and build them out. Uh but you know at least he's better than like you know open AI in that he accepts the reality of ads and lets those people do what they need to do &gt;&gt; right we do need money in order to sell any of this that makes sense. Uh so yeah so I so I do think the future opportunity is real but why do you need and this is I guess the critical thing. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; You want let's take consider regulation. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; You love regulation. I don't. Uh let's &gt;&gt; depends on the regulation for the record. A lot of bad EU regulation out there but sure. &gt;&gt; What is my core concern with regulation? Um, the core concern drawing on about 50 different Sharptech episodes over the last couple of years. The core concern with regulation is that it stifles innovation and we don't we fail to account for the products we don't see and the businesses we don't see in an overregulated environment. Is that right? &gt;&gt; Excellent. Great job. [laughter] A+ for you. Uh, you know, it's always tricky at the end of the semester. You're tired, worn down, and you have your final and you're a little sick. Can you actually Starbucks through in the clutch? Can [laughter] you come through the clutch Starbucks and give the right answer? And you did it. I'm extremely proud of you. &gt;&gt; Okay, &gt;&gt; so the point is it's a hard argument to be on the anti-regulatory side because on the pro-regulatory side, you get to point to actual harms that happen. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And on the anti-weather side, you have to point to things that didn't happen that were foreclosed, &gt;&gt; which by definition, you don't actually know what they are. &gt;&gt; And that's what is so &gt;&gt; frustrating and also concerning. You don't actually we don't actually have a measure of everything that didn't happen. &gt;&gt; And and it could be actually way larger than we think it might have been. And but but then but but then people like you who want more laws, they're like, "Well, give me an example. Give me what is it?" Huh? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; But that's what you're doing to Facebook and AI. That's what you're doing to Facebook and AI. Right. So there there is an aspect of the more transformative that you think AI is almost by definition the less you can say what the transformative aspects are going to be simply because what is possible in the future wasn't even &gt;&gt; imaginable previously and so if you're I I have sympathy for Mark Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; in that he clearly believes this is that level of transformative he believes to the extent they're going to spend every single dollar of free cash flow they have. &gt;&gt; But implied in that level of belief is that we're pursuing things that are definitionally impossible to say what they are because that's how transformed this technology is. &gt;&gt; Now maybe an insane perspective for a public company CEO, but that's why that's the whole point of having founder control. Like so totally I mean I I respect where he's coming from. I do think Adam nailed it that Zuck at his core is a technologist and a dreamer and he feels like this is the next big thing and he wants Meta to be at the center of it and it's his company so it's his prerogative to spend. I just am not sure it's an existential concern to the extent you need to spend every last &gt;&gt; I know but but the point where you validate whether it's existential or not is too late. M that's &gt;&gt; like that's what Apple's that that like we're running an experiment. &gt;&gt; Let's let's let's schedule our podcast for 2036 &gt;&gt; and see who was right, Apple or Meta. &gt;&gt; And I think ultimately my uh skepticism here is a vote of confidence in the moat that Meta has with Instagram and Facebook and how durable those businesses are going to be even in a paradigmshifted environment 10 years from now. But maybe I haven't read enough Daario essays to fully internalize the revolution that's coming for all of us.